Welcome to JW Broadcasting®
for February 2022!
Last month,
we enjoyed Part 1
of the 2021 annual meeting.
That program was filled
with exciting announcements,
videos, and stirring talks
delivered by several members
of the Governing Body.
And it was so heartwarming to see
a live audience of Bethel family members
come together to enjoy this spiritual feast.
Well, this month,
we’re happy to present the second half
of the annual meeting program.
We know you’re going to thoroughly enjoy
the encouraging updates,
interviews, and talks to follow.
Well, we know that the pandemic
has altered all of our lives,
and we commend all
in the worldwide brotherhood
for your loyal response to direction.
As you likely know,
more specific direction
and restrictions were recommended
for those who serve
as special full-time servants in the field.
Let’s hear now from some of them
about the unique circumstances
they experienced.
Jehovah provides
all of the things that we need
to accomplish our ministry
and to feel secure
no matter what tribulation we face.
We truly have experienced
Jehovah’s loving support
during this pandemic.
Our heavenly Father,
through his organization,
has provided just what we’ve needed
to endure faithfully in our ministry
and to stay strong spiritually.
How has the direction
to shelter in place
affected circuit overseers,
construction servants, field missionaries,
and special pioneers?
How have they been able
to continue in their ministry
serving Jehovah whole-souled and with joy?
What practical lessons have they learned?
To follow the Governing Body’s direction
to shelter in place,
we couldn’t go in to see Steve’s mother.
She was in aged care just ten minutes away
from where we’re based.
She died while we were sheltering in place.
This led to another challenge
—grieving in isolation.
At the beginning
of the shelter-in-place direction,
I had a very difficult time.
I had flashbacks
that were very difficult for me.
During the Vietnam War,
I was imprisoned
because of taking a neutral stand.
I had a reaction to this lockdown
of being confined.
We especially discerned
the value of the direction in November 2020
when, suddenly,
I was taken to the hospital
because of a serious heart disease
and severe pneumonia.
It turned out that my life was in danger.
The doctors evaluated
that if I had contracted the coronavirus
in that condition,
I would not have had a chance to survive it.
While sheltering in place,
how did these obedient brothers and sisters
stay positive
and maintain their physical, emotional,
and spiritual health?
Even through that difficult time,
having Zoom  meetings,
having the meetings for field service,
doing witnessing by Zoom,
and being with the brothers and sisters
—I can’t say enough good about it.
In being able
not to meet an hour requirement
but by going ahead
and being very busy spiritually,
we did a phenomenal amount of shepherding,
strengthening, and upbuilding
our brothers and sisters
—folks literally from around the world
that we knew needed help.
When the Governing Body
removed the specific hour requirement,
I think we felt their trust.
That gave us more flexibility,
and this enabled us to reach out
to relatives not in the truth
and to support them during the pandemic.
And that has led
to two, regular, continuing Bible studies.
I really feel how much
the Governing Body cares for us
every time they mention in their letters
that they do not require us
to reach the required hours.
Many brothers and sisters today are depressed
and experiencing pandemic fatigue.
Usually they need someone
who they can talk to about their problems.
And because of these adjustments,
I now have more time to encourage them
and help them to remain spiritually strong.
Since most congregations I serve
don’t have Internet access,
I make video recordings for all the talks.
I make a simple platform
and set up the microphone and cell phone
that I use to create the video.
Then I stand in front
and start giving the talk.
What blessings did they receive
from their obedience?
I was so happy to start
a Bible study during the pandemic,
especially when I saw how quickly
the student was making progress.
Because of my health,
each study session
was about 15 to 20 minutes long.
I had to find a good place
to conduct the study at the hospital,
mainly in the hallway.
One day after the concluding prayer,
I noticed the door
to a doctor’s office was open.
The doctor was listening
to our whole Bible study discussion.
I was so happy
she attended the study as well.
Recently, in my circuit,
59 Bible students progressed to baptism.
Unity within families is another blessing.
Parents are spending a lot of time
conducting Bible studies with their children.
Our Christian life is compared to a race,
and this is not a short race.
There are unexpected things
that can happen to us.
By striving to obey from the heart now,
we can be prepared to obey the directions
that we are going to receive
in the great tribulation.
We are sure that this is not the last time
that we have to be obedient.
We see Bible prophecies being fulfilled
right in front of our eyes,
and ahead of us are
even greater events
that will bring larger trials.
James 1:2, 3 helps us
despite trials to keep joy
—deep joy—
in our hearts,
and it assures us
that all difficult situations
will help us to work on endurance.
And this quality will help us
to cope with trials to come.
I personally have benefited from following
the Governing Body’s direction.
I’ve actually felt joy every day,
and I can only put that down
to the blessing from Jehovah God
on our efforts to be obedient.
We’ve both benefited
from the direction from the Governing Body
because we trust
that they are
“the faithful and discreet slave.”
Christ Jesus is directing them.
I am so absolutely grateful
to the Governing Body for providing direction
that is blessing every single one of us
around the earth.
Just like you,
these dear ones have made great sacrifices
to continue serving Jehovah
whole-souled during this pandemic,
and no doubt we’ve all learned the value
of applying the words at 2 Timothy 4:2:
“Preach the word; be at it urgently
in favorable times and difficult times.”
For a certainty, neither this pandemic
nor any other difficult times to come
will stop our preaching work
and, more importantly, prevent
Jehovah’s loving care.
We certainly express
our love and appreciation
to all of our special full-time servants
in the field
for the excellent example they’ve set
in following direction.
Well, as a very appropriate follow-up
to the two preceding video presentations,
we’re happy now to have
our very dear Brother Gerrit Lösch,
a member of the Governing Body,
provide comfort for all of us
with his talk entitled
“No Resident Will Say: ‘I Am Sick.’”
Aren’t we all glad that we are healthy enough
to be able to listen
to the annual meeting program?
Yes, we don’t want to take it for granted.
Worldwide, some 20,000
of our brothers and sisters
have died so far from the effects
of the COVID-19 pandemic.
But tens of thousands
of our brothers and sisters,
including many relatives,
have been and are now
affected emotionally by this fact.
Death tolls affect friends and family,
and the feeling of loss is deep.
Secular sources say that the overall
death rate in the United States
is about 1 percent
of the population each year.
Every year around the world,
an average of over 60 million people die.
The daily average is about 164,000.
How sad!
With the COVID-19 plague,
the number of total deaths
worldwide is, of course, higher.
In the United States, over 600,000 citizens
have died from COVID-19 alone.
Even when tempered
by the hope of the resurrection,
the death of a loved one
is still a traumatic loss
which is deeply felt.
Years, perhaps decades,
of close companionship and sharing
are suddenly and tragically ended.
Of course, if those that died
were part of our family,
it affects us much more emotionally.
We are also affected
because we did not expect them to die,
except perhaps if some
were in their 80’s or 90’s.
Even though we know that they will come back,
we still feel hurt and are very sorry
to have temporarily lost them.
It is very sad to lose somebody in death,
even temporarily, isn’t it?
In the case of Lazarus,
the Bible shows that even Jesus shed tears
when he saw the emotional pain
experienced by Lazarus’ sisters.
To be sad and to cry
in the case of somebody’s death
is not an indication
of somebody’s lack of faith
or an emotional imbalance.
Never feel ashamed in such a case.
Feel free to “[give] way to tears.”
At John 5:28, 29,
Jesus’ promise is comforting.
He said:
“Do not be amazed at this,
“[because] the hour is coming
“in which all those in the memorial tombs
“will hear [the Son of God’s] voice
“and come out, those who did good things
“to a resurrection of life,
“and those who practiced vile things
to a resurrection of judgment.”
However, Jehovah foretold
that sickness and death
will not continue forever
but are temporary now
and will soon end as the new world arrives.
Even in the past, Jehovah miraculously proved
that he’s able to prevent sickness
and subsequent death.
And he proved that he has the power
to bring back humans to life.
As much as we are sorry
to have lost relatives
or friends in death
because of COVID-19 or any other reason,
we can rejoice that Jehovah
will bring them back in the resurrection.
Jehovah brought back some of his servants
in the resurrection in the past.
The Bible speaks of nine
specific resurrections of individuals.
Instead of reading a list with their names,
you can try to recall who these persons were.
If you don’t come up with nine persons,
why not make it a part of a conversation
with friends to complete the list?
It refers to Jesus and eight additional ones.
It is so encouraging and comforting
to talk about it.
Hebrews 11:35
speaks of a better resurrection,
better than the resurrection
of the eight persons mentioned in the Bible
who had to die again at a later date.
The future resurrection is better
because it contains the possibility
to never die again in all eternity.
Imagine living not only for a thousand years
but for a million years,
for ten million years,
for a hundred million years,
for a hundred billion years, and so on.
As for those being
brought back in the resurrection,
the resurrection will be
perceived like having happened
in the blink of an eye after their death,
although they may have been
dead for quite some time.
For instance,
when Lazarus was resurrected,
he did not recall
that he was laying in the tomb.
When he was resurrected,
to him it was like the next moment
after he lost consciousness from dying.
When he came to,
he had no perception that he was in the tomb.
Jehovah created man originally.
He can also re-create a human.
Psalm 104:29, 30 says:
“When you hide your face,
“they are disturbed.
“If you take away their spirit,
“they die and return to the dust.
“If you send out the spirit,
they are created.”
Jehovah will give the resurrected ones a body
just as it pleases him.
Their bodies will be physically sound
and obviously look similar
to the original body
so that they will be recognized
by their loved ones.
Faithful Christians who die late
during the time of the end
will likely be among
the first ones to be raised again.
We can also expect an early resurrection
for some of the faithful men of old
who will join others
as “princes” in the new world.
Nevertheless, we should not be
dogmatic on such matters.
On many issues related to the resurrection,
the Bible is silent.
It does not spell out details of how,
when, or at what locations
the resurrection of individuals will occur.
It does not tell us how those returning
will be housed, fed, and clothed.
It would be unwise to spend a lot of time
trying to find answers
that are at present unanswerable.
It is best to just focus
on the fact of the resurrection to come.
First Corinthians 15:52
also speaks of the resurrection
—not of an earthly resurrection,
but a heavenly, spiritual one.
This text refers to anointed ones
who would die and be raised
“in the blink of an eye.”
This resurrection began during our time,
the time of the end.
When they die,
they go to heaven in an instant
—like during “the blink of an eye.”
But those who have the earthly hope
to live forever on earth in Paradise
also will have the same perception later
when they will be
resurrected in the Paradise.
The time from their death
to the moment of their resurrection
will not be consciously experienced by them.
It will be for them
like the ‘blinking of an eye.’
Those resurrected to heaven
will obtain immortality.
Those resurrected on earth
will not be immortal
but have the chance to live
forever as long as they remain faithful.
In connection with the ancient Israelites,
Jehovah also proved that he’s able to protect
his people from sicknesses.
And he did it
when the Israelites remained faithful.
Deuteronomy 7:15 foretold
in connection with those
who escaped from Egypt:
“Jehovah will take away
from you all sickness,
“and he will not bring upon you
any of the terrible diseases
that you have known in Egypt.”
We can trust that Jehovah
fulfilled his promise.
He did so when the Israelites were faithful.
He blessed the Israelites
with good health and long life.
This shows his past love
for the people of Israel.
It also indicates his power
and that if he wishes to repeat this miracle,
he can do it, of course.
He will do so after Armageddon,
during the Millennium,
or Thousand Year Reign of Christ.
Revelation 22:2 foretells
“the healing of the nations.”
This includes physical and emotional
healing in the new world.
Death is really an enemy,
but Jehovah will do away with it.
At Isaiah 33:24, it says
that in the new world
“no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’”
There will be no hospitals.
There will be no drugstores.
There will be no physicians.
There will be no professional nurses.
At Revelation 21:4,
it foretells that in the new world
there will be ‘neither mourning
nor outcry nor pain anymore.’
We are very sad
about what happened around the world
with so many of our brothers and sisters
falling asleep from COVID-19 recently,
but we know they will come back.
They will come back healthy.
They will not come back
looking like old people,
even if they died at 80 years.
They might look like they are
in their 30’s when resurrected.
As stated earlier,
they will look reasonably similar
to their original body
so that they will be recognized
by their loved ones.
How it fills our hearts with love for Jehovah
that he will bring back
in the resurrection our loved ones!
The apostle Paul had a firm hope.
He explained at 2 Corinthians 1:7:
“Our hope for you is unwavering,
“knowing as we do that,
“just as you are sharers of the sufferings,
in the same way
you will also share the comfort.”
At the conclusion of his letter, Paul urged:
“Continue . . . to be comforted, . . .
and the God of love and of peace
will be with you.”
What an important lesson
we can learn from this!
All members of the Christian congregation
need to share the comfort
that God provides through his Word,
his holy spirit,
and his earthly organization.
The principal source of comfort is,
of course, Jehovah himself.
There’s no real lasting comfort
that does not originate with God.
Appropriately, then, Paul wrote:
“[Blessed] be the God and Father
of our Lord Jesus Christ,
“the Father of tender mercies
“and the God of all comfort,
who comforts us in all our [tribulation].”
What inspiring words!
The Greek word here rendered “comfort”
is linked to “a calling to one side.”
Therefore, it is the standing
beside a person to encourage him
when he’s undergoing severe testing.
One Biblical scholar wrote:
“The word . . . always means
“far more than soothing sympathy. . . .
“Christian comfort
is the comfort which brings courage,
“the comfort which enables a man to cope
with all that life can do to him.”
It also includes comforting words
that are based on a solid promise and hope
—that of the resurrection of the dead.
So, what can we do
to enhance the comfort for others?
Listen.
One of the most helpful things you can do
is to share
the bereaved one’s pain by listening.
You may ask,
“Would you care to talk about it?”
One Christian recalls when his father died,
“It really helped me
when others asked what happened
and then really listened.”
Listen patiently and sympathetically.
“Weep with [people] who weep”
recommends the Bible at Romans 12:15.
Be available.
Make yourself available
not just for the first few days
when many friends and relatives are present,
but for months later, if necessary,
when others have returned
to their normal routine.
Our Christian interest and sympathy
can mean so much
in any time of need.
The Bible says that “there exists a friend
sticking closer than a brother.”
Talk about the good qualities
of the deceased person.
This is another great help.
Share positive anecdotes
that you recall about the individual,
and do not be afraid
to use the person’s name.
Write a letter or send a comforting card.
Often overlooked
is the value of a condolence letter
or a beautiful sympathy card.
Its advantage?
It can be read over and over again.
Such a letter need not be long,
but it should show your compassion.
Pray with them.
Do not underestimate
the value of your prayers
with and for bereaved fellow Christians.
The Bible says at James 5:16:
“A righteous man’s supplication . . .
has much force.”
Encourage sufferers to meditate on Jehovah.
He’s the God of all comfort.
He said in Isaiah:
“I [I] myself am the One
that is comforting you [people].”
He also said:
“Like a man whom
his own mother keeps comforting,
so I myself shall
keep comforting you people.”
Find with me Psalm 119.
Let’s first read verses 50, 52:
“This is my comfort in my affliction,
for your saying has preserved me alive.”
Verse 52:
“I remember your judgments from of old,
O Jehovah, and I find comfort in them.”
And now even verse 76:
“May your loyal love please comfort me,
“according to the promise
you made to your servant.”
Note that the word “comfort”
is used repeatedly in those passages.
Yes, we can find true comfort
for ourselves and for others
by turning to Jehovah’s Word
in our time of affliction.
This combined
with the love and compassion of the brothers
can help us to live
through our loss and fill our lives again
with joyful activity
in the Christian ministry.
What a privilege to worship the Almighty,
our loving God, Jehovah,
who will bring back
our loved ones in the resurrection!
There will never again be a pandemic
to claim the life of faithful servants.
Because at that time
“no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’”
Well, we truly thank you, Brother Lösch,
for those very comforting, loving words.
We really felt your love
for the worldwide brotherhood.
And certainly those words
were “food at the proper time.”
Well, now we’re going
to change the direction somewhat
with a talk from another member
of the Governing Body,
Brother Stephen Lett.
His topic is
“We Can Be Victorious Over Satan’s Attack!”
What will you do
in the face of Satan’s attack?
Well, that’s a relevant question
for all of us here
because without exception,
we’re under a vicious, intense attack.
But the question is,
As the battle intensifies
in our individual cases,
will we be able to stand our ground,
bravely fight,
and come off victorious?
Well, obviously your desire
is to be victorious—isn’t it?—
or you wouldn’t be attending
this special program.
But we need more than just the desire
if we’re going to ensure victory.
In fact, to win any battle,
we need accurate knowledge of three things:
We need to know our enemy,
know his strategy,
and know what we have to defend ourselves.
Now, first,
let’s talk about our enemy, Satan.
He is no ordinary foe.
Jehovah educates us
regarding this enemy we’re fighting.
For one thing,
he’s a premeditative murderer.
Look at what he did to Job’s attendants
—slaughtered them with marauder bands.
Others were consumed with fire.
Look at what he did to Job’s ten children.
He simultaneously murdered
all ten of them with a violent windstorm.
Yes, he’s a premeditative murderer.
He wants to murder into everlasting death
every one of us here.
Now, on top of this,
he is highly intelligent.
As one brother said,
“He may be evil, wicked, murderous,
but he’s not stupid.”
He’s highly intelligent.
In fact, think about this:
The fact that he was once in the truth
makes him more intelligent in a sense,
or (we could say) clever,
because he has knowledge
of having been in the truth.
John 8:44 says:
“He did not stand fast in the truth.”
But he was in the truth.
Now, to illustrate
how this makes him more dangerous,
think about a few of the false brothers
during World War II
who left the truth
and joined the Nazis
in persecuting the brothers in the truth.
They had knowledge
of who were taking the lead.
They knew where they lived.
They knew the strategy
that was being utilized.
They were more dangerous, weren’t they?
Well, it’s the same with Satan.
Second Corinthians 11:14 says:
“Satan . . . keeps disguising himself
as an angel of light.”
Now, it’s very easy for him
to pretend to be what he used to be.
So that makes him more dangerous.
Now, open up, please,
to Revelation chapter 12
—a very familiar scripture.
But let’s reason on this to help us further
not to underestimate, or underrate, our enemy
—Revelation 12:7.
“And war broke out in heaven:
“Michael and his angels battled
with the dragon,
“and the dragon and its angels battled
“but they did not prevail,
“nor was a place found for them
any longer in heaven.
“So down the great dragon was hurled,
“the original serpent,
the one called Devil and Satan,
“who is misleading
the entire inhabited earth;
“he was hurled down to the earth,
and his angels were hurled down with him.”
And then look at verse 12:
“On this account be glad,
“you heavens and you who reside in them!
“Woe for the earth and for the sea,
“because the Devil has come down to you,
“having great anger,
knowing that he has a short period of time.”
Now, you notice, he’s not just mad.
He has “great anger.”
Why is he so angry?
Well, for one thing,
after he lost the war in heaven,
he wasn’t merely asked to leave heaven
and then he quietly left.
We read that “he was hurled” out of heaven,
and that denotes thrown with great force.
So that undoubtedly added to his great anger.
But also think about this:
The tremendous reduction
of his sphere of movement
adds undoubtedly to his great anger.
Before being cast out of heaven,
apparently he had access
to both the vast, vast physical
and spiritual heavens,
but now he’s confined to the vicinity
of this little, tiny earth.
And if you think about it,
not only does that make him mad,
it makes him more dangerous, doesn’t it?
Before being cast out of heaven,
undoubtedly he would try to turn away
the angels part of the time
and he would try to turn away humans.
He was divided in his attention.
But now we have his undivided attention,
don’t we?
So that’s bad for us,
and that makes him dangerous.
Here’s another illustration
about the increasing of the danger.
I’d like you to imagine
that all of the Mafia members,
all of the drug cartel members,
and all of the terrorists
on the entire planet Earth were gathered up
and were confined to New York City,
the city limits,
and you lived there too.
Now, can you imagine
the escalation of crime and evil
that would take place there?
Additionally, we read that he’s mad and angry
because he knows his time is short.
Now, if that was true back around 1914,
what about today, over 100 years later?
He knows his expiration date is almost here.
So you add it all up,
and his anger
is truly, really white hot,
you could say.
And he has hordes of demon helpers.
That makes him more dangerous too.
Do you think it would be possible
for a demon to block
one of Jehovah’s good angels?
Well, be careful how you answer that.
Daniel 10:13
talks about the demon prince of Persia
blocking Jehovah’s good angel “for 21 days.”
Now, how was that possible?
Well, we don’t know for sure,
but perhaps the demon prince
before becoming a demon
had been a cherub or a seraph.
And maybe the one sent on the assignment
was a messenger angel.
Of course,
Michael came to help the good angel,
and he was able to get past that demon.
But that scripture and others
help us not to underestimate the demons.
We can’t underestimate
“the ruler of the demons”
nor these demons
who work under his supervision.
So adding it up,
we find that Satan
is a premeditative murderer.
He’s highly intelligent.
He has great anger
because of his great reduction
of sphere of movement
and because of his expiration of time,
and he has hordes of demon helpers.
Now, Jehovah has given us
all this information,
not just to fill up pages in the Bible
but so that we are determined
to recognize the enemy we’re up against
and that we’re determined
to fight even harder
so that we can be victorious.
But now let’s take a little time
to get to know our enemy’s strategy.
Again, thanks to Jehovah,
we’re not in the dark, are we?
Second Corinthians 2:11 says
“so that we may not be overreached by Satan,
for we are not ignorant of his designs.”
Why are we not ignorant?
Well, very kindly Jehovah has exposed
the full spectrum of Satan’s designs,
his strategies, his maneuvers.
He’s exposed all of them
in his Word, the Bible.
Now that’s very kind of Jehovah
—isn’t it?—
very kind of Jehovah.
Even though the Bible was written
(the completion of it)
over 1,900 years ago,
Jehovah, let’s say 100 years
after the Bible had been written,
didn’t come to the realization:
‘Oh, no! I forgot to put one
of Satan’s tricks in the Bible.
Oh, no! My people won’t be ready for it.’
No, Jehovah has exposed every one of them
in his Word, the Bible.
Well, what two basic categories
does God’s Word indicate
that Satan’s strategies can be divided into?
Well, first, we have the frontal attack.
Now, that’s characterized
by bannings, imprisonments,
threats, and acts of violence,
such as were used on our brothers
in Malawi in the past
and are being used today
in Russia on our brothers.
And you don’t have to scratch
your head and say,
‘I wonder if I’m being persecuted.’
When you have the frontal attack,
it’s obvious, isn’t it?
It’s clear—the frontal attack.
Has this proved to be
Satan’s most successful method of attack?
No, not really.
Here’s just one experience
out of thousands that could be related
to substantiate this point.
Now, this experience centers
around a 29-year-old brother
named August Dickmann.
Now, you probably remember this experience.
He was put
in Sachsenhausen concentration camp
in 1937,
but then three days
after World War II began
in 1939,
he was ordered to sign
his military induction slip.
Of course, he refused to do that.
Now, the camp commander was furious.
So he got permission from Himmler,
the head of the SS guard,
to publicly execute August
in front of all the camp inmates.
And he arranged a special assembly
after he got this permission,
and he had Jehovah’s Witnesses
right down in front,
where they would get the full impact
of the execution of our dear brother.
Well, after he was executed,
all the other inmates were dismissed,
but Jehovah’s Witnesses had to stay.
And with great enthusiasm,
the camp commander
said to the Witnesses there,
he said,
“Who is now ready to sign the declaration?”
Well, not one
of more than 400 Witnesses responded.
But then two stepped forward.
No, not to sign
but to ask that their signatures
given about a year earlier
be annulled.
What a slap in Satan’s face!
And that really illustrates
the poor success rate
of this frontal attack, see,
and many other experiences could be related.
And it’s certainly proving true
of our brothers in Russia today,
including elderly ones.
The frontal attack
has a very poor success rate
—a slap in Satan’s face.
But, now,
what is the second category of strategy
that sadly has claimed
many spiritual victims?
Let’s go to Ephesians chapter 6,
and here we can identify in verse 11
this second category.
“Put on the complete suit of armor from God
“so that you may be able to stand firm
against the crafty acts of the Devil.”
So notice that
—“crafty,” sneaky, underhanded, devious.
Satan uses these,
and he’s brought down many
away from Jehovah and out of the truth.
These “crafty acts” remind me
of an illustration years ago
in one of our publications of a soldier
who was looking in the distance
for the enemy to come over the horizon.
He was looking for the frontal attack,
but he wasn’t looking
in the rocks down by his feet.
There was a poisonous snake lurking.
And that powerfully made the point:
You have to watch,
yes, for the frontal attack
but especially for the snake-in-the-rocks
attacks of the Devil
that can really bring you down
without you realizing what has happened.
But Jehovah assures us that we can succeed
in triumphing over both
of these categories of attacks.
In fact, Psalm 91:13 is a beautiful thought.
It says, and Jehovah assures:
“You will trample underfoot
“the maned lion
and  the big snake.”
And the Insight  book explains
that apparently in that scripture,
“the maned lion”
represents the frontal attack,
the open attacks of Satan,
whereas “the big snake” represents
the sneaky, crafty acts of the Devil.
But Jehovah says
“you will trample” both of them “underfoot.”
So we can be successful over both of them.
Well, what are some
of these snakelike, crafty acts?
Well, let’s just discuss two examples.
Here’s one: materialism.
Now, this has brought down
many elders, ministerial servants,
pioneers, publishers
—a very successful crafty act of the Devil.
It’s no coincidence that this world
is powerfully geared to promote materialism.
Relentless advertising messages
are designed to indoctrinate deeply
the idea that acquiring
abundant material possessions
and acquiring happiness
are inseparably linked
and directly proportional.
That’s really the message the world gives.
Isn’t that true?
And if we’re not careful,
we can begin to think
like these advertising messages
want us to think
—that we’re a poor, poor loser
if we don’t acquire abundant material things.
So, what can happen?
We could get sucked
into this little by little.
We buy one item.
No problem, we can handle that.
We buy something else.
Well, now we need
to work a little bit of overtime
to make the payments.
We keep buying.
Now we need to take a second job.
Little by little,
we’re missing meetings, service,
and there’s less time for personal study
—“the more important things.”
And little by little
(we could call Satan the god of gradualism),
he’ll take us away from Jehovah
by means of materialism.
Well, here’s one more example:
bad association.
At 1 Corinthians 15:33, Jehovah says:
“Do not be misled.
Bad associations spoil useful habits.”
We might try to mislead ourselves:
‘Oh, I can handle it; I’m strong enough.
Maybe I’ll even bring this person
into the truth.’
Or others may try to mislead us.
But Jehovah says: “Do not be misled.”
And then he gives the terrible consequences.
Think of this illustration:
If you lock a man and a skunk in a closet,
when they come out,
will the skunk smell like the man
or will the man smell like the skunk?
Well, you know the answer,
and Jehovah knows it works the same way
with bad association.
Well, those are just two examples
of crafty acts of the Devil.
There are many others.
They’re all exposed, though,
as we said before.
Jehovah kindly has done that.
But now think of this.
Think of this illustration:
If you’re walking in darkness
with a loving friend
and he shines a flashlight on a trap
that is right in front of you,
does the light of that flashlight
remove the trap?
No, it just shows you where it is.
Now it’s up to us to go around the trap.
Isn’t that true?
How foolish to go ahead and step in that trap
that our friend has illuminated!
Well, Jehovah is the Friend
in that illustration.
But we have to do our part, don’t we?
Well, we’ve thus far discussed our evil enemy
and his sinister strategy,
which Jehovah has exposed.
But, now,
what do we have to defend ourselves?
One major component of our defenses
is knowledge, see,
what we’ve just discussed:
knowing our enemy, knowing his strategy,
and then wisely utilizing that knowledge
provides a real protection for us.
There’s a saying,
“To be forewarned
is to be forearmed.”
Similarly, Proverbs 4:5, 6 says in part:
“Acquire wisdom,
acquire understanding . . . ,
and it will protect you.”
But now, additionally,
we have our spiritual armor.
Ephesians 6:12, 13 says in part:
“We have a struggle . . .
“against the wicked spirit forces
in the heavenly places.
“For this reason
“take up
the complete suit of armor from God,
“so that you may be able to resist . . .
and . . . stand firm.”
We’ve had some beautiful
Watchtower  study articles recently
about each of those six pieces of that armor
and how we can put on
and keep on each piece of the armor.
Without our armor,
we are defenseless.
We’d be like a soldier
on a raging battlefield,
dressed only in his underwear.
How long do you think he would survive?
Minutes, if that long.
And not only do we need the armor,
but we need every piece of the armor.
And that’s what Ephesians 6:13 says,
“the complete suit of armor.”
One piece of armor missing could be tragic.
Now, let’s illustrate this.
Let’s say a soldier forgets
to put on his bootlike sandals.
He goes out into this raging battlefield,
and he steps on a long, sharp thorn
just as he’s attacked by an enemy soldier.
Who is going to win?
Well, it’s obvious.
We need every piece of the armor.
Additionally, an indispensable part
of our defense system
is Jehovah’s holy spirit.
At Zechariah 4:6, the thought is made:
“‘Not by a military force, nor by power,
but by my spirit,’
says Jehovah of armies.”
See, we don’t fight this battle
in our own strength.
We have to have Jehovah’s holy spirit.
And if we have holy spirit
and we’re empowered by it,
if we think about it,
there is no breaking point to our integrity.
You probably have heard the illustration
of the straw that broke the camel’s back.
And literally with a camel,
you could keep piling
more and more weight,
so that finally you could put so much weight
(just a little more weight)
that you could break its back.
Satan could do that to us
—couldn’t he?—
if we were on our own.
But Jehovah knows when we’ve done our part
and we’ve gone as far
as our imperfect flesh will take us,
and then he steps in
and makes up any deficit.
Satan piles more;
Jehovah makes up for the shortfall.
Jehovah makes us equal to that challenge.
And since Jehovah is the Almighty,
there is literally no breaking point
to our integrity.
In fact,
one brother living in a banned country
refused to violate his Christian neutrality,
so he was stripped naked,
forced to lie facedown,
and ruthlessly beaten for six hours
on his back and his legs.
Spectators fainted
because it was so ruthless.
But yet,
here’s what that brother said sometime later.
He said:
“Regardless of the amount
“of insulting and beatings that we received,
“a few seconds would pass
“and we would not feel anything more
“even though the beatings continued.
We were feeling
that Jehovah God was always with us.”
Well, there we have three aspects
of our defense system.
There are others.
But we discussed
that we have God-given knowledge:
We know our enemy,
we know his strategy,
and we know what we have
to defend ourselves.
But then we have our spiritual armor,
and we have Jehovah’s holy spirit.
If we do our part,
unquestionably Jehovah always does his part.
And this combination
is going to be unconquerable.
So as the battle intensifies
in our individual cases,
we’re not going to have to turn
and cowardly flee.
We’ll be able to stand our ground.
We’ll be able to bravely fight,
and with Jehovah’s help,
we will come off completely victorious
in the face of Satan’s attack.
We thank you so much, Brother Lett,
for that encouragement and that strength
that “no weapon formed
against [God’s people]
will have any success.”
And it’s a good opportunity
to remember the 129
of our dear brothers and sisters
around the world
who are presently in prison
because of their faith.
Do you remember what Hebrews 13:3 says?
“Keep in mind those in prison,
“as though you were imprisoned with them,
“and those being mistreated,
since you yourselves also are in the body.”
We certainly love and respect
our brothers in Russia
and in many other lands
who are facing cruel persecution.
Well, we still have two members
of the Governing Body
that we want to hear from.
But before we do,
we would like to give you an update
on the project that Audio/Video Services
is spearheading at the Australasia branch.
You’ll recall that it was announced
at last year’s annual meeting.
So, what has been happening
with this video project
in this intervening time?
Please pay close attention.
At the 2020 annual meeting,
we announced an exciting new video project,
The Good News According to Jesus.
Brother Anthony Morris made
the following encouraging statement.
Will there be challenges?
Oh yeah, guaranteed.
But if Jehovah wants something done,
that’s what happens.
How true those words have proven to be!
To date,
the largest feature drama
Audio/Video Services had produced
was a little over 100 minutes in length.
The Good News According to Jesus
spans nearly 1,000 minutes of content!
We are happy to update you
on this exciting project
and share different ways Jehovah
has helped us to overcome various challenges.
Brothers and sisters already serving
at the Australasia branch were key
to helping us get the facilities ready.
How did they handle this special assignment,
especially during the pandemic?
We were all very excited,
but as the scope
of this project became clear,
there were times when we wondered how
our small publisher base
of around 68,000
would be able to fully support
this large undertaking.
We’re a small department,
and it’s a small branch that we’re at.
And all of a sudden,
we had this project highlighted
that was three times our normal workload.
Right after we received approval
for the project, the branch territory
experienced terrible bushfires
raging right throughout the country.
Straight after this were floods.
So, many of our brothers
experienced double disasters.
As we then started to recover from this
and build momentum to start the project,
the COVID-19 pandemic began.
All of the deliveries
of construction materials
coming into the branch
had to be quarantined
(all of the bulk supplies
that the Construction Department was using).
And so that meant there was a time period
for those things to be unavailable for use.
And then the logistics
of (once all those bulk supplies
came out of quarantine)
then moving them to where they’re needed
on the site
when new deliveries
are coming in and managing
that safely
with the COVID-19 risks
and the risks of interaction
with the delivery drivers and the contractors
—it was complicated
and very time-consuming for all involved.
We needed help from our brothers
and sisters outside of Bethel.
So we put the call out,
and they came from all over
the branch territory to help.
Many of them traveled days on rough
and rugged roads
to come and help us.
When they arrived,
they spent a time in quarantine,
and then they were able to come
and help us safely on-site.
There were specific items
needed for the project.
So we asked the brothers and sisters
to help to see where or how
we could obtain them.
It was so heartwarming
to see all the responses flooding in.
Within a short amount of time,
we had received offers
for donations or loans
for much of the heavy machinery
or large equipment we needed
and even things like plants for landscaping.
So we brought in a number
of temporary workers,
and a number of remote workers
as well were added to the team.
And the Branch Committee
made available a large car parking area
so that we could
quarantine off all of the deliveries
and handle those things safely
and in line with the guidelines.
So at the beginning of the project,
the number was about 200 people
in the family,
and that quickly grew to around 500.
And while we have a beautiful kitchen
here to serve food from,
it wasn’t really designed
for 500 meals each day.
The Branch Committee
as well as our various departments,
although they had
a heavy workload themselves,
were able to extend a helping hand.
Where we lost commuters,
we gained some workers
from various departments
who helped us in various tasks
within Food Service.
So it was clear to everybody
in the department and at the branch
that it really needed to be a team effort,
and everybody went above and beyond
to make this work.
But that only takes you so far.
Jehovah’s blessing on the arrangements,
the qualities that he helps us to show,
the motivation that he helps us to have
to overcome those challenges
and to take on things that really
are beyond what we can normally cope with
—seeing that particularly
as we look back on a number
of those challenges
and how they’ve been overcome—
you see Jehovah’s involvement day to day.
A brother had a trailer
that was going to be donated to the project,
but he didn’t have the funds
to pay for the freight.
At the very same time,
a sister contacted the branch
and wanted to donate specifically
to the project.
The amount she donated
was the amount that was needed
to cover the freight
to bring the trailer to Bethel.
One brother made a 30-hour
round-trip to deliver
a large quantity of goods
he manufactured for us.
He made this trip, not once or twice,
but multiple times,
even planning the work
around two surgeries he had to have.
A number of trucks were required
to freight the goods,
so members of his family and congregation
shared in the driving
while local brothers extended hospitality.
I’m very impressed
with the level of appreciation
and the sense of gratitude
that permeates the family.
And seeing that is
a real boost for us and a real blessing.
We feel very appreciative for everyone
who’s been able to help on this project,
and we recognize the personal
and collective sacrifices
that have been made.
And those who have been able
to come in and help us on the project
tell us how thankful they are
to have had a share in the project.
Only Jehovah can create
a situation like this.
Jehovah always finds a way
to help us do his will,
often providing solutions
we never thought possible.
In addition to preparing
the Australasia facility for the project,
much work has been done
with script development, casting,
and location scouting.
How has this progressed?
We recognized that there
would be many needed adjustments
to the branch there
as far as facilities are concerned.
We knew that there would be the need
for many volunteers to be involved
in the project,
and we knew it was going to be
coordinated from halfway around the world.
The challenge with finding locations
for the Gospel accounts
is that they need to look like ancient lands
but be placed in a modern world.
They need to have no signs of civilization
and yet be close enough to civilization
to support our modern filming operations.
You’re asked to flesh out an entire world,
a culture,
and hundreds or,
actually, thousands
of characters that appear in these accounts
and to do so with very limited information
actually in the Bible.
How do we add enough details
to connect with the audience
but do so without overstepping
by introducing teachings
or ideas that contradict
the Bible’s message?
We can truly say it was a worldwide effort
on the part of our brothers and sisters.
It was especially encouraging
to see how young ones
responded to this need.
They were looking to extend themselves
in their service to Jehovah,
and they were willing
to adjust their secular jobs.
They were willing to move
to other locations in order to be able
to support this project.
We were looking at how we could
accomplish so many auditions
in a shorter period of time.
So we came up with the idea
of a self-guided audition
where we put a package together
identifying how the audition needs
to be accomplished and we send it
to the publisher that’s being auditioned,
and they record their own audition
and send it back to us for processing.
While we were at some of the locations,
we actually did test filming.
We put actors in wardrobe in front
of the camera and re-created certain scenes
to see how this location
could be used for our project.
We were able to travel to more than
a dozen locations during a month,
and everyone returned happy and healthy.
There are some accounts in the Gospels
that reference large groups,
such as the Sermon on the Mount
and when Jesus preached from the boat.
How would we show that many people?
The team took time to test various methods,
including some computer graphics
as well as different styles
and methods to be used
to duplicate people
for these large crowds.
The production team was able to see
what did and did not work,
and this is very beneficial because it helps
us to plan appropriately
for the actual production day.
And so it’s simply a matter
of going and doing
as much research as possible
to find out what is known.
And, of course,
there’s an entire team
devoted to doing research
for our publications.
And we have access
to those brothers and sisters.
Something that has been
incredibly valuable for every screenwriter
on this project is to see
members of the Teaching Committee
sit at every table read for each script
and then proceed to give us direction,
ask questions, give us direction
on what to go and research further,
what to remove, and (in many cases)
what to add.
It shows how deeply they’re
invested in the story of Jesus’ life.
It felt like Jehovah
had taken us and placed us
into a land thousands of years ago.
When we got to these various locations,
we literally would
jump out of the vehicles
and run across the landscape
in excitement for how
we could potentially use them.
One of the biggest challenges we had
was getting everyone back into the vehicles
so that we could go on to the next location.
We went to one property,
and when we talked with the brother,
he said: “This isn’t my property.
“This belongs to Jehovah.
“I’m holding onto it (I’m not sure why),
hoping that perhaps Jehovah
can use it in some way.”
And when you think
about all of our brothers and sisters
coming together to support this initiative,
it really has been a blessing
to be able to witness that.
It really reminds me of what is said
at Psalm 133:1,
where it said it would be “good”
to see brothers and sisters
‘dwelling together in unity.’
And we’ve seen that goodness.
We’ve seen our brotherhood really
rally around supporting this project
in so many ways.
And it has contributed toward
a spirit that has allowed Jehovah
to bless the work.
Would you like to see how the design
and construction aspects
of the work are progressing,
including the historical sets?
Well, one of the biggest challenges we’ve had
in the Design/Construction world
is to get the mentality
that we’re designing
and building something
that needs to look 2,000 years old.
Now, we’re used to building modern buildings,
and we’re used to using the materials
that we have today,
but to now use those
to provide something that was ancient,
that was going
to be quite the challenge.
In Jesus’ ministry,
he went to numerous different towns,
and those towns
would have had different looks
because of the natural products
that were available to the tradesmen then
to build those buildings.
Back in ancient Israel,
the building materials would have been stone,
so they would have used limestone, basalt,
field stones,
and even clay bricks.
There’s probably
just over 100 doors and gates out there.
There are also over 200 windows,
and we’ve got shutters,
and all of these need
either timber lintels or timber sills.
You have tradesmen
who are used to getting things,
you could say, nearly perfect.
Normally as a renderer, or a plasterer,
you would cover up cracks,
but here we’re having
to actually create these.
That can be quite a challenge.
Back a few years ago,
there were various branches
that were put forward as possibilities,
as options.
And in the end,
the Australasia branch was chosen.
At that time
in the Design/Construction world,
we thought,
‘Well, that was an interesting choice.’
But during 2020, during the pandemic,
we found out in retrospect
that it was one
of the only places on earth
where this project could be completed now.
Because of the low incidence
of COVID in the country,
we were able to use outside contractors
to come in to the project
to do part of the site work for us.
So it’s been a blessing to have
the project take place
at this location.
Those that we had on-site here
already were very
open-minded,
and they had a lot of creative thinking
when it came to building historical
sets now with modern materials.
So we have about 7,000 square meters
of render to accomplish,
and we’ll have two teams working full-time
for several months to accomplish this.
In this particular type of work,
nobody’s trade really counted;
everybody had to try.
And many of our sisters, in fact,
were the ones that had the skills
that were needed to create
the historical effect that was required.
To achieve the weathering
that would happen on the stone
if it sat there for hundreds of years
out in the weather—
The water would get into the stone
and slowly break it down.
So then there are going to be areas
of the stone that are softer,
so they’ll wear away quicker.
So then that’s done with the wire brush.
And then some spots with the acetone,
it puts little divots into the stone,
which occur naturally in limestone.
Once the project is completed in the backlot,
the brothers and sisters will have applied
up to four and a half thousand square meters
of stone finish to the buildings.
It’s been amazing to see how
with a variety of backgrounds (despite this),
they’ve been able to achieve
quite amazing things
with just their willing spirit,
prepared to take
on board the instruction.
And we can see Jehovah’s blessing behind it.
In the temple area, in the backlot,
there are a little over 4,000 square meters
of concrete that has been made
to look like stone.
Well, one of the contractors who quoted
on the job was actually a brother.
And that particular brother said:
“Well, you know what?
“I can volunteer to do this.
“And there are enough brothers around
that we can bring together,
and we would be more than happy
to be able to do it on a volunteer basis.”
So an isolated area was set up
where these brothers
could test and sample and produce
the concrete that was needed
for the floor finish of the temple.
So for over 27 days of straight pours,
we had approximately 30 brothers and sisters
each day come in and work tirelessly
to be able to accomplish
this temple floor for us.
The last day of the concrete pour,
we wanted to surprise the brothers,
because someone had made
a sign saying: “United in spirit.”
But actually,
the construction Bethelites surprised us.
They all had balloons and signs,
and it spelled out “Thank you.”
I think that just reflected
how we love each other
and how we’d give our life for each other
because we both serve the same God
and we love Jehovah.
Through lots of sleepless nights
and a bit of prayer about it,
we ended up finding a brother
who owned a sawmill and had property
with trees on it,
and he willingly chopped down the trees
on his property
and provided them for us
—delivered them to site
and actually donated them to us.
And they were exactly what we needed.
We also had specific prayers
at certain times about certain matters,
and then 30 minutes later,
we’d receive answers.
That definitely also is no coincidence.
And then obviously getting
the right approvals just at the right time
despite objections—we know
that there’s no one else other than
Jehovah that could have a hand in that.
So it’s obvious that Satan has put
everything he can in front of us,
but Jehovah has provided every time
at the right time.
It’s no coincidence that his hand
has been on this,
and there is no doubt that he
wants people to know about his Son, Jesus.
Seeing the collaboration in our
monthly meetings
with the entire team where we have
the World Headquarters Legal Department,
the World Headquarters Computer Department,
we have the Purchasing Department,
we have Design/Construction,
we have the Regional Video Teams,
we have Audio/Video Services
—all of these groups
along with the branch in Australasia—
working together for a common goal
as a team
has been amazing
and a very faith-strengthening experience.
We were happy to share this update with you.
But you might still be wondering:
‘How are actors being prepared to reach
our hearts through their performance?
‘How will the tone and filming style
be selected to represent
the Gospel accounts?’
And maybe the biggest question you have is,
When will cameras start rolling?
Stay tuned for a future update.
Imagine the powerful impact
this video series will have on people!
It will help you and me
follow Jesus’ footsteps closely.
It will help us draw closer to Jehovah,
whom Jesus
perfectly imitated as a human.
But the benefits go far beyond you and me.
As stated in the 2020 annual meeting,
it is likely that this series will be used
to touch the hearts and minds
of billions of resurrected ones
in the coming new world.
Just think how
this video series could help them
learn about the example that Jesus set.
Imagine how the visual portrayal
of his warm, humble,
and approachable personality
will help them
to come to know Jehovah intimately.
How exactly will we use this new series
to teach resurrected ones?
We will have to wait and see
what Jehovah directs.
We are confident Jehovah
is blessing this work.
And we will continue
to look to Jehovah for direction
as we move ahead
with The Good News According to Jesus.
Well, as you likely noticed,
when this video production
was first starting,
Australia was one of the countries
that had the least impact from the pandemic.
And so that allowed this large project
to move ahead and gain momentum.
Even though later the pandemic
affected Australia much more seriously,
all of the preparations were underway.
We truly thank Jehovah
for the tremendous progress
that has been made on this project so far.
Well, now we have another treat.
We’re going to hear
from another member of the Governing Body,
Brother Samuel Herd.
His theme is actually a quote from the Bible.
Are you ready?
The title is
“I Will Never Abandon You.”
I spoke to Jehovah
just before I stepped out here.
And I asked him:
“Please don’t abandon me.
If I’ve ever needed you, I need you now.”
Why?
Well, it’s because of all
of these beautiful sheep
that I have the privilege
to speak to for 19 minutes.
So I want to make
the most of these 19 minutes,
because sometimes
we have to make adjustments.
Now, you may have heard of a few adjustments
in our understanding of things already today.
And there could be more adjustments
that will have to be made later on.
Now, you may recall that we
used to think a certain way
some ten years ago
about the following matter.
We felt that some of the anointed
would survive Armageddon
and move right on into the Paradise
with the other sheep
and maybe stay there for a given time
and then be brought to life in heaven.
But as we understand it,
some things Jehovah
will not permit us to see,
even though we read over it many, many times.
We can’t see it until Jehovah
puts the light on it.
And what I’m about to reveal to you today,
Jehovah is behind it
—not the Governing Body,
not any human here on the earth,
but Jehovah God.
He helps us to see things.
Now, you may recall
Matthew chapter 24
verses 29-31.
You’ve read it many times; I have too.
But notice what it says,
even though we felt
a little differently
earlier on when we read it
—verse 29:
“Immediately after the tribulation
of those days
“[now remember this,
“immediately
after the tribulation of those days],
“the sun will be darkened,
and the moon will not give its light,
“and the stars will fall from heaven,
“and the powers
of the heavens will be shaken.
“Then the sign of the Son of man
will appear in heaven,
“and all the tribes of the earth
“will beat themselves in grief,
“and they will see the Son of man
coming on the clouds of heaven
“with power and great glory.
“And he will send out his angels
“with a great trumpet sound,
“[now note the following]
“and they will gather his chosen ones
“together from the four winds,
“from one extremity of the heavens
to the other extremity.”
Now, do you see the point?
We understand now
that all of Christ’s anointed brothers
will be in heaven with him
before Armageddon starts.
That’s the understanding that we have today.
And this is exciting!
We think so because of a few reasons,
and here are a few.
A few of the other sheep
have expressed a concern on this subject.
They have said: “Does this
“new understanding mean
“that we will lose
all the anointed Christians,
“including the Governing Body
“just when we need them
“the most?
“Will we feel abandoned
in our time of need?”
Well, let me reassure you
that you will not be abandoned.
And that’s what this talk is all about.
You need not think that you will be abandoned
because of the anointed
not being in your midst any longer.
So we’re going to discuss three questions.
And here they are
if you’re writing things down.
Number one:
What will not happen
when the last of the anointed
leaves the earthly scene?
And number two:
How do we know
that such things will not happen?
What will happen?
So we’re going to look at these questions.
First, then, what will not happen?
Well, I’d like to tell you very briefly
two sad stories
to illustrate what will not happen.
Now here is sad story number one:
Do you remember Jehoiada?
He was a faithful high priest,
one of the best.
When he died, he was given an unusual honor.
He was buried with the kings.
During his life,
he protected the young King Jehoash
and helped him to be a good king
who stayed faithful to Jehovah.
But when old Jehoiada died,
the young king soon went bad.
He listened to wicked princes,
and he turned away from Jehovah.
That’s sad story number one.
On its heels, we have sad story number two:
You remember
that the apostle John took great joy
in his spiritual children.
He was a good influence on them.
He helped many Christians to remain faithful.
But what happened when John died?
Well, he was
the sole surviving apostle,
the last restraint against apostasy.
So after John passed off the scene,
it was not long
before something happened.
What was it?
What happened when John died?
Well, the last restraint against apostasy
—he was the last restraint,
and now he’s gone.
So after John passed off this earthly scene,
it was not long before apostasy
spread like wildfire.
And within a few decades,
the Christian congregation
went off into captivity
to Babylon the Great
—the world empire of false religion.
Now, why mention
those sad stories?
Now, here’s the reason:
Some may wonder
(in our midst today
in the Christian congregation):
‘What’s going to happen when all the anointed
‘are taken to heaven?
‘Will the great crowd be left
‘in the lurch?
‘Will they
‘stray into some kind of trouble,
maybe even apostasy?’
Well, what do you think?
Have you heard any signs of that already?
Well, here’s the answer: No.
They’re not going to stray into apostasy
—absolutely not.
Those Bible accounts actually
teach us what will not happen.
And that brings us to the second question:
How do we know
that such things will not happen?
The answer has a lot to do
with when we live.
We do not live in ancient Israel.
I don’t see anyone dressed like
an Israelite.
None of you brothers wear skirts.
Oh, there’s one!
No, there’s none.
So no,
we don’t live in ancient Israel.
Well, now you may wonder,
‘Why does that matter?’
Because that nation was heading
for trouble from its early days.
At Deuteronomy 31:29,
Moses uttered
this inspired prophecy
about those rebellious people.
This is how it reads:
“I well know that after my death
“you will surely act wickedly
“and turn aside from the way
about which I have commanded you.”
Now, Moses’ words came true
many times, not just once.
Finally, Jehovah had to cast off
those wicked people.
So when King Jehoash went bad,
he was just acting like many other
kings of Judah and Israel.
Today things are
different among God’s people.
Keep in mind, we do not live at the end
of the first century C.E.
Now, why does that matter?
Remember in Matthew 13
in his illustration
of the wheat and the weeds,
Jesus had foretold
that a great apostasy would take place.
In 2 Thessalonians chapter 2,
Paul confirmed that Jesus’ prophecy
was already beginning
to come true in the first century.
Peter and John verified
the same in their writings.
In the second century C.E.,
the Christian congregation
was corrupted and went off
into spiritual captivity
to Babylon the Great.
So Jesus’ inspired prophecy
was fulfilled; it came true.
However, today, things are very different
among God’s people—much different.
At what time are we living?
Well, we said, “Not back then.”
Well, you know the answer to that.
We’re blessed to be living
in a special time period.
And this began as far back as 1914.
It’s more than just “the last days”
of this old system of things.
Well, why is that?
Notice what the Bible says—Acts 3:21.
It says it’s also called
“the times of restoration of all things.”
Now, let the word “restoration”
linger in your mind.
Why does that matter?
We’re living in “the times
of restoration of all things”
because pure worship has been restored.
We’re bathing in it.
And the worship of Jehovah will never
be corrupted ever  again
for all eternity.
Now that is something to swallow
that’s tasty indeed.
Now let’s read Isaiah 54:17 together.
Jehovah made this long-range prophecy
through Isaiah.
Now, this is what it says:
“‘No weapon formed against you
will have any success,
“‘and you will condemn
any tongue that rises up
“‘against you in the judgment.
“‘This is the heritage
“‘of the servants of Jehovah,
“and their righteousness is from me,’
declares Jehovah.”
Now, think about that, please.
“No weapon
“formed against you
will have any success.”
The prophecy says that this is
our “heritage.”
Those inspired words are being fulfilled
now—today.
Nothing can take that away,
not even “the god of this system things,”
Satan himself.
Now, remember our second question:
How do we know
that when the anointed are taken to heaven,
the great crowd
won’t drift away into trouble?
How do we know
that they won’t rebel
the way that Jehoash did
when Jehoiada died
or drift off into apostasy
the way the second-century Christians did
after the last of the apostles,
John, died off?
Well, we know
it’s just a matter of turning the page.
And the answer is
because we do not live in ancient Israel
and we do not live
in the second century C.E.
We live in a wonderful time
of—what?—
restoration
when Jehovah has guaranteed us
that ‘no weapon formed
against us will succeed.’
Now, our third question:
What will happen when the anointed
are taken to heaven?
Well, try to imagine that time.
I’ll give you a second.
It’s over.
The great tribulation is underway.
Babylon the Great, the world empire
of false religion, is destroyed first.
Think of it!
Events that God’s organization
has prepared us for over many decades
are happening before our eyes.
Then comes something else
we have been told to expect.
What’s that?
Some time during the great tribulation
and before the war of Armageddon,
the remaining ones of Christ’s anointed
are taken to heaven.
What do you think will happen next?
Will the great crowd wander
about lost and confused
like sheep without a shepherd?
Of course not.
Remember, Jesus is the Shepherd.
He will never fail to do his job.
Keep in mind that the anointed
are not the head of our organization.
Jesus is.
And we hope all parents today
raising children
will teach them that fact.
With Jehovah’s own Son in charge,
Christ’s followers here on earth
will have nothing to fear.
Of course, we do not know every detail
about how Christ will lead
his people at that time.
But there are some Bible examples
that may reassure us.
For instance, when Moses died
before Israel entered the Promised Land,
what happened to God’s people?
Well, without that faithful man,
were they left in the lurch?
The answer is no, not at all.
As long as they were Jehovah’s people,
Jehovah provided for them.
And he provided richly for them.
They had an abundance.
Before Moses died,
Jehovah told him to commission Joshua
to lead the people.
Moses had been training Joshua for decades.
In addition, there were many
other capable men taking the lead
—‘chiefs of thousands, hundreds,
fifties, and even tens.’
God’s people were well cared for.
Thank God for Moses and Joshua.
Another example is that of Elijah.
He had been taking the lead in pure worship
among the Israelites for decades.
But the time came for Jehovah to transfer him
to a different assignment
down south in Judah.
Were faithful people in the ten-tribe kingdom
of Israel left in the lurch?
Far from it.
Elijah had been training
Elisha for years.
Then there were also
“the sons of the prophets”
evidently organized into schools
of some kind; we don’t know.
So there were many faithful men
helping to lead God’s people.
Jehovah’s purpose kept advancing,
and he cared for his faithful people.
Now, with those examples in mind,
what do you think
will happen when the anointed
are taken to heaven?
Well, we don’t need to wonder.
Open your Bibles or iPads, and look
at Hebrews 13:5b.
It says: “For he has said:
‘I will never leave you,
and I will never abandon you.’”
That tells us the simple, reassuring truth
that Jehovah
will “never abandon” his faithful ones.
Like Moses and Elijah, faithful anointed ones
who take the lead today
understand the importance
of training others.
That’s ongoing.
The Governing Body has been training men
of the other sheep to take
the lead for many decades now.
We’re familiar with the many schools
to train elders and missionaries
and traveling overseers
and branch personnel.
In addition to that, the Governing Body
has personally been training helpers
to the various committees
of the Governing Body.
These faithful men are right now
carrying a very heavy load of responsibility.
Believe me,
as a member of the Governing Body,
I can say for the rest of us
that we need the helpers
that Jehovah has given us.
We pray for them every day.
And they’re well-prepared
to continue in this work,
caring for Christ’s sheep
under the direction of Jesus himself,
the head of the congregation.
Now, what is the point?
Simply this:
When the anointed are taken
to heaven near the very end
of the great tribulation
but before Armageddon,
there will be no interruption
of pure worship here on the earth.
Pure worship will keep right on going.
So thank
Jehovah for the leadership
of Jesus Christ.
None of God’s worshippers in heaven
or on earth will miss a beat.
Yes, there will be an attack
from Gog of Magog,
but it will not get very far.
It’s going to fail.
It will not stop the great crowd
from worshipping Jehovah
and looking to him to rescue them.
And what a Rescuer he will prove to be!
Now, how do we answer the third question?
Well, we partly know what will happen
to the great crowd when
the anointed are taken to heaven,
but that may still leave us wondering:
‘What about the anointed?
‘What will they do after they
depart the earthly scene?
We want to know.’
Well, the Bible answers that directly.
At Revelation chapter 17,
we are able to learn in verse 14
that the political elements of this world
will foolishly battle with the Lamb.
They will lose, of course.
The verse says: “The Lamb will conquer them.”
And who will help him?
The verse continues: “Also, those with him
who are called and chosen
and faithful will do so.”
Now, who are called, chosen, and faithful?
At that time, it will be
the resurrected anointed.
So when the anointed are called to heaven,
one of the first assignments is to fight.
Yay!
Now, that’s interesting.
Some of us were fighters
before we became true Christians.
Some even served
in various branches of the military
—didn’t we, Brother Morris?
Some were green berets
but not Brother Morris.
But then we became Christians.
We learned “the way of peace,”
and we let go of such warfare.
Figuratively speaking, we pulled the pin
on our last hand-grenade
and tossed it into the air,
killing no one or nothing
—just a loud kaboom.
But in heaven, we will serve along
with Christ and his holy angels,
waging the final war against God’s enemies.
So if you’ve ever thought
that you might feel left in the lurch
after the anointed are taken to heaven,
think of this:
On earth, none of us Christians
are allowed to fight.
Many of us anointed ones
are too old to fight,
even if we were allowed to.
But in heaven,
we will be mighty spirit creatures
fighting alongside
our Warrior-King Jesus Christ.
Believe me, we can and will do
you significantly more good in heaven
than we ever could as imperfect humans
here on this earth!
Well, I’m not done, but I should be.
As for the other sheep,
what will you need to do
during that climactic time?
Simply this: hide.
That’s right.
At Isaiah 26:20, he wrote:
“Enter your inner rooms,
“and shut your doors behind you.
“Hide yourself for a brief moment
until the wrath has passed by.”
It will be hide-and-seek.
You will hide,
and they will seek to find you,
but they will not.
Do you have anything to worry about?
You have nothing to worry about
—nothing at all—
because Jehovah will never
abandon you.
There is no justifiable reason
to worry about the future.
Just be there,
brothers and sisters, to enjoy it.
Remember, Jehovah loves you
and he will never abandon you.
Please believe it.
You will not be disappointed.
Well, we said it would be a treat,
and it was a treat.
Thank you so much, Brother Herd,
for helping us to realize
that God’s people are completely safe,
even as we approach
the great tribulation and Armageddon.
But now the question is,
When will those events occur?
Please pay close attention
to Brother Anthony Morris,
another member of the Governing Body,
as he speaks to us on this subject:
“Why ‘Keep on the Watch’?”
So to answer the question,
Why keep on the watch?
there is a simple, direct answer.
But we have a second reason as well
to share during this talk.
Find Mark,
and we’re going to read
chapter 13.
And it leads to our main reason why,
but the context will really help us
in verse 32.
Let’s read that:
“Concerning that day or the hour
“nobody knows,
“neither the angels in heaven nor the Son,
but the Father.
“Keep looking, keep awake,
“for you do not know
when the appointed time is.
“It is like a man traveling abroad
who left his house
“and gave the authority to his slaves,
to each one his work,
“and commanded the doorkeeper
to keep on the watch.
“Keep on the watch, therefore,
“for you do not know
when the master of the house is coming,
“whether late in the day or at midnight
“or [at] dawn or early in the morning,
“in order that when he comes suddenly,
he does not find you sleeping.”
Now, that’s our Lord and Master
—very direct.
He’s compassionate (true) but direct.
And then the main reason why—verse 37:
“What I say to you, I say to all
“[so it’s being repeated
to all of us listening]:
Keep on the watch.”
Very simple, very direct.
That’s what is expected.
However, and I appreciated—
I hadn’t heard Brother Cook’s talk
(knew about the details and such),
but he emphasized for all of us,
and it’s connected here,
Jehovah as a God of comfort.
So while it’s true that we want
to sometimes address directly
the things that Jesus has taught us,
it doesn’t mean that Jehovah is
no longer a God of comfort.
He wants to comfort us.
So this is the second reason.
If you’ll find Isaiah,
we’re going to read in chapter 48.
And it’s a very fine thought
about why keep on the watch.
In verse 17—very familiar to us—
you’ll see the point:
“This is what Jehovah says, your Repurchaser,
“the Holy One of Israel:
“‘I, Jehovah, am your God,
“‘the One teaching you to benefit yourself,
the One guiding you
in the way you should walk.’”
Now, how we appreciate the footnote
that adds depth
to what Jehovah is saying here:
“Or ‘for your own good’”!
Isn’t that priceless?
Why keep on the watch?
It’s for our own good.
It really is.
And that’s the point
Jesus and Jehovah want us to take away.
We’re trying to address that with this talk
because some of you
have been serving Jehovah
for a long time.
And I’m not going to stare at anybody
because I know different ones,
and it’s just amazing how Jehovah
has been there for you all these years.
But you’re only human.
And we’ll address some concerns
that some raise.
And I just want to have you
think about this here
—a personal experience.
Many years ago, my sons, Jesse and Paul,
were in the early years of school
—elementary school.
And back at the time—
I haven’t heard it a lot lately,
but from time to time,
this would come up at a social gathering.
Now, mind you, they’re
in second grade and first grade,
but these boys were thinkers.
So they’d listen,
and they appreciated all these older ones.
We had a number of them in Rhode Island
—longtime servants of Jehovah God.
However, from time to time—this statement—
they’d be looking at my sons and say:
“Oh, you’ll never graduate in this system.
It’s not going to happen.”
So, you know, I’m at their house;
they just fed us.
Lord, help me.
What am I going to do here?
But this would come up from time to time,
at least during those years.
And maybe it was post-1975.
I don’t know.
But they’d make these statements.
And I’m going to give you a big confession
because, you know,
this one comes clear to mind.
Driving back from the gathering,
Jesse and Paul are, you know,
thinking and they’re troubled.
They’re puzzled.
What is this about?
Because, you know, they had goals.
“What are we going to do?”
And they’re thinking
of the things in the future for them
as they’re growing in their love for Jehovah.
“Is that true, Dad?”
And so I’d say, “Look . . .”
And let me tell you,
these people saying these things
were longtime servants—experienced people.
If any of you are guilty, God loves you.
He forgives you.
If you did that back then,
you didn’t help anybody.
But I’m going to give you a big confession.
So that one particular night,
we’re driving back
—it was a little distance from where we were—
and they brought that up.
They’re sitting in the back seat,
and we’re having this conversation.
And I told them—I said:
“Look, you boys remember,
“you got to keep on the watch.
This thing could go on,
and be ready for it to go to 2020.”
Honest.
I mean, we’re talking almost 40 years
—almost 40 years.
I felt pretty safe with that.
But you know what year this is.
What are you going to do?
But at least I’m happy to say
that they and my wife and their wives
are all still keeping on the watch.
We have been and plan to continue
to keep on the watch.
Now, this is just something to address
—the feelings that some have.
And these are beautiful friends
—different ones worshipping Jehovah
for many decades.
And we’re only human.
It’s the truth,
but we’re only human.
So one brother wrote,
and I appreciated his sincerity.
He said:
“During the annual meeting of 2019,
“the Ramapo project was announced.
“And if I remember right,
“it was stated that the project
would be complete in a few years.
“With recent Watchtower  articles telling us
“that we are in ‘the last of “the last days”’
“[beautiful expression,
but words are powerful],
“it seemed a little disappointing
that this may push
Armageddon off a few years.”
This was his sincere concern—really.
And you know he’s not alone.
They’re only human.
Well, how should we respond?
A brother wrote that in.
Well, remember, Jehovah is a God of comfort.
You want to go direct.
It’s what we addressed there
with what Jesus told us.
But how can we comfort him too?
Bring the truth as it is,
and be straight with it.
The Governing Body wants all of you to know
(including those that will see it later)
that we are determined to remain active
and to faithfully deliver spiritual food
at the right time.
We are also looking beyond the last days.
You’re getting that message.
Let me expound on that thought:
looking beyond the last days.
This is a quote from the Proclaimers  book.
I treasured it when the book came out,
and a lot of work went into that publication.
But there, referring to God’s people,
it stated—
You know, there was
a lot of international construction
going on at the time too,
if you were in the truth then.
I’m quoting it now:
“With the help of Jehovah’s spirit,
“they [God’s people] want to give
the greatest witness possible
“during the time that remains
before Armageddon.
“They are convinced
“that God’s new world is very close at hand,
“and they have faith
“that they will survive
as an organized people
“into that new world, under the rule
of God’s Messianic Kingdom.”
Now, please note the rest of this quote:
“It is also their hope that perhaps
“[key word]
“many of the fine facilities
that they have built
“and dedicated to Jehovah
“will continue to be used after Armageddon
“as centers from which knowledge
of the only true God
can be diffused
until it truly fills the earth.”
Beautiful thought.
It’s right there—still valid.
So in harmony
with what the faithful slave said then,
the faithful slave now says
that many of the projects
that are being worked on now
—like Ramapo, the Good News
According to Jesus  video series—
may or perhaps
will carry over into the new world
to assist the great crowd with the work ahead
and perhaps
include resurrected ones.
That’s comforting.
You have to let that sink in.
Now we want to conclude
with expressions from two friends of mine
—longtime hardworking supporters
of the faithful slave for decades.
I love these men,
and we’ll keep it anonymous.
But I asked them
to write their personal feelings
because, you know, they’ve been supporting
the slave for all these decades.
How have they benefited
from keeping on the watch?
So here’s what the first one said:
“I come from a long line of people
“who believed in keeping in expectation
of the end.
“My mother died just last year,
“and she always felt that the end
was close at hand.
“She just knew that she would live to see it,
“but she didn’t.
“She had first learned the truth
from her mother-in-law, my grandmother,
“an anointed Christian who often told me
“that she hoped to see the end
come in her lifetime.
“She didn’t.
“She had learned the truth from her mother,
who died when I was a teenager
“and firmly believed
she would see the end in her lifetime.
“She didn’t.
“And she, my great-grandmother,
“had learned the truth from her mother-in-law
“who died long before I was born
“and surely felt the same way
about seeing the end.
“She didn’t.
“And here I am now
on my seventh decade of life,
“firmly believing
that I will see the end very soon.
“So, what does that mean?
“That I’m just another one
in a long line of delusional people?
“I don’t think so for two reasons.
“One, the evidence that the end is near
keeps growing.
“I’ve seen signs of the end
that even my mother never saw,
“such as the recent pandemic.
“Sometimes I compare myself
to a man living in Judea
“around the year 608 B.C.E.
“Such a man might have come
from a long line of faithful people
“who had listened to the prophets
and thought that the end was near.
“Over a century earlier,
“hearing these things
“(and maybe his great-grandparents
might have heard Isaiah speak)
“led them to conclude
that Jerusalem’s end was near.
“Should that man decide
that his family had been deluded
“just because they hadn’t seen
the destruction of Jerusalem?
“No.
Jerusalem was destroyed in 607 B.C.E.”
So, see, he’s living in 608 B.C.E.
having these concerns.
Months later, it happens.
“But more importantly, that man would know
“that his faithful family were good people
who lived good lives.
“They loved Jehovah,
and they saw the truth of Isaiah’s words.
“God teaches us to benefit ourselves.
“And that’s the second reason
why I don’t feel that I’ve been deluded
“or that my faithful family members
have been.
“Each one who served Jehovah
led a good, productive, useful life.
“They were not just sitting around
waiting for the end.
“They always had projects
that kept them busy in Jehovah’s service
“—goals and personal study
and preaching and helping others.
“So they were full of purpose and joy.
“I want the same kind of life.
“Also, I can hardly wait to tell my mother
[this is touching]
“just how close the end was
“when she finally closed her eyes.
I know she will want to hear all about it.”
See, very touching.
And now the second brother relates
how keeping on the watch has benefited him.
“My mom raised
my brother and me in the truth.
“She often expressed to us her confidence
“that the end is just around the corner.
“She didn’t just say it, but she lived it.
“She devoted herself to the ministry
“so that she could help others
to serve Jehovah
“while there is still time.
“She kept in expectation of the end,
“doing so year after year
“until she died.
“Now I’m approaching
the age of my mother when she died.
“I’ve been keeping on the watch
for over 50 years now.
“Am I bitter because the end
has not yet come?
“No, not at all.
“How could I be?
“I’ve lived a full and satisfying life
“by living according to Jehovah’s standards.
“Why would I want to live any other way?
“What has helped me to keep positive
while waiting for the end to come?
“From time to time, I reflect
on these few things [and here they are]:
“My dedication is unconditional and unending.
“I did not dedicate myself to Jehovah
“on the condition that he brings the end
within my lifetime
“or even on the condition
that he gives me a reward.
“I dedicated myself to him forever.
“And next, I must keep
the big picture in mind.
“I don’t want to make the mistake of focusing
“only on what the end will mean for me
“—the prospect of surviving
into the new world.
“Rather, I must focus
on something far more important
“—what the end will mean for Jehovah
“and the sanctification of his name.
“Knowing how important that is to him,
“I can be sure that it will happen
in his due time.”
And then finally:
“Meanwhile, I must endure to the end.
“That means to the end of this system
or to the end of my life,
“whichever comes first.
“Either way, the older I get,
the closer I am to the end.
“What if, like my mom,
I don’t live to see it?
“No worries.
“The moment I close my eyes in death,
“my next conscious thought will be
“opening my eyes in the new world.
“Then it really won’t matter
whether I live to see the end or not.”
Beautiful expressions
of two beautiful spiritual men.
So the question to conclude is,
Will this be the last annual meeting
before the great tribulation?
Nobody raised their hand.
We don’t know.
But what we do know
is that Jehovah and Jesus want us
to keep on the watch.
And it’s for our own good to do so.
Thank you so much, Brother Morris,
for that very stirring,
very encouraging talk.
Well, would you agree, brothers and sisters,
that we have not been disappointed
with our banquet of spiritual food today?
How do you feel?
We began our program
by being reminded that Jehovah,
by means
of “the faithful and discreet slave,”
is providing what we need
exactly at the right time.
And what an abundance
of spiritual food we have!
Just think of the variety that we discussed
in our annual meeting today
—our new publication Enjoy Life Forever!,
a brand new Caleb and Sophia epic video,
the wonderful Scriptural talks,
the direction that we received
regarding the COVID-19 pandemic,
The Good News According to Jesus
video project,
as well as the wonderful,
upbuilding spiritual songs.
And that’s just a fraction
of the spiritual food
that we’re receiving at this time.
Certainly, Jehovah,
by means
of “the faithful and discreet slave,”
keeps giving
all these forms of spiritual food
just at the right time.
Well, the events of the past two years
have been historic,
and they truly have been unprecedented.
They indicate that we are close
to the outbreak of the great tribulation.
How vital it is, brothers,
that we continue to recognize
Jehovah’s channel
for receiving spiritual food!
The November 15, 2013,
issue of The Watchtower
mentioned key points
for elders in particular to keep in mind
as we prepare to face the attack
of that coalition of nations
that the Bible calls Gog of Magog.
Now I’m going to quote the article;
this is what it stated.
This is the quote: “At that time,
“life-saving direction
that we receive from Jehovah’s organization
“may not appear practical
from a human standpoint.
“All of us must be ready to obey
“any instructions we may receive,
“whether these appear sound
“from a strategic or human standpoint
or not. . . .
“Now is the time
“for any who may be putting
their trust in secular education,
“material things,
“or human institutions
to adjust their thinking.”
Very sober words
that apply so well at this particular moment.
So, dear brothers and sisters,
do you know what time it is?
There has never been
a more important time
to stay alert spiritually
and to respond quickly
to Jehovah’s direction.
Jehovah has led us safely to this moment.
He has given us everything that we need,
and we know he’s going to continue to do so
—just as our 2022 yeartext
found at Psalm 34:10 states:
“Those seeking Jehovah
will lack nothing good.”
So, dear brothers and sisters,
be determined
to continue to follow
our Leader, Jesus Christ,
and the channel that he is using today
because if we do,
we will have everything that we need
and right on time.
Well, with that we conclude
another spiritual feast
in conjunction with the annual meeting
of the Watch Tower Bible
and Tract Society of Pennsylvania.
Wasn’t that a powerful program?
And how reassuring
to review the many ways
Jehovah has strengthened us,
energized us,
and comforted us over the last year!
This annual meeting
left us with no doubt
that despite the challenges
our brothers and sisters have had to endure
in the face of persecution,
natural disasters,
and the ongoing effects of the pandemic,
Jehovah continues to bless his people.
His organization is on the move
as never before.
Let’s conclude our program
with a video postcard
that takes us
to the beautiful island nation of Jamaica.
Jamaica is the third-largest island
in the Caribbean Sea,
located about 100 miles,
or 160 kilometers,
west of Haiti.
The golden beaches
and beautiful coral reefs
that ring the island
draw more than four million visitors
each year.
The country’s main crops include bananas,
sugarcane,
and world-famous
Jamaican blue mountain coffee,
which is grown high
on the steep slopes of the Blue Mountains.
Jamaica is also known for its jerk cuisine,
which features meats
such as chicken, pork, or goat
rubbed with spices and cooked over a fire
to give the meat a distinctive smoky flavor.
The good news first reached Jamaica in 1897.
Brother Russell even gave a talk
in the capital city of Kingston back in 1913.
Today, there are
more than 11,360 publishers
preaching in more than 165 congregations
and groups.
The national language of Jamaica is English,
but two remote translation offices
help support the preaching in Jamaican Creole
and Jamaican Sign Language.
During the pandemic
when it became necessary
to hold meetings
by videoconference,
our Jamaican brothers
had to deal with a special challenge
—the high price of Internet access.
The cost of data
to connect to just one meeting
was twice the price
of taking a taxi to the Kingdom Hall.
So it was far more expensive
to attend a meeting virtually
than it was to attend in person.
Our Jamaican brothers and sisters
generously have been sharing
their electronic devices
and helping one another
with the cost of data
so that everyone can access the meetings
and enjoy good association.
Some who benefited from these provisions
are in the Central Sign Language Congregation
in Mandeville.
The congregation has been able
to meet together by videoconferencing
with two other
Jamaican Sign Language groups,
providing deaf publishers on the island
with more opportunities for association
during the pandemic.
The hardworking publishers
in the Central Sign Language Congregation
send you their love and greetings.
And please remember,
dear brothers and sisters,
that we love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!